## Internal Award Calculation

We will explain the procedure to calculate the Internal Assessment Awards,
using Moodle's GradeBook.

Moodle's GradeBook is a powerful tool for managing grades, sharing grades
and feedback with students and calculating the  final grades.  Students will
get marks on the basis of various activities like Attendance, Assignments,
Mid Semester Examinations (MSEs).

We can create all these activities without setting up a gradebook.  However
it is better, if we set up grade book in advance.

However we will follow first approach, as that will cover most common
approach adopted by a beginner.

Let us take an example, suppose we have a class that has sections A and B. 
B section further has two sub-sections B1 and B2.

We conducted two lectures per week for the whole class (combined sections A
and B).  And the other two lectures per week conducted for each section
separately.  Then tutorial, one per week at sub-section level.  Section A
has no sub-section (as the strength of students is less).  Section B has two
sub-groups, B1 and B2.  So tutorials are conducted for section A, groups B1
and B2 separately.

For assignments, let us say, six assignments are given to the students, each
of 10 marks, and we will consider the best four.  We also conducted 5
Quizzes, and out of 5 best four will be considered for grading towards
"Assignments".

We conducted two MSEs and one makeup / improvement MSE.  So out of three
best two will be considered.  Each MSE is of 24 marks

We have created all these activities, without assigning them in any
category, and we are at the end of semester.  Now, we will classify all
these activities, and calculate the  internal assessment.

We assume that you can upload marks for any activity, if marks / grades are
not automatically calculated by Moodle system.

If you don't know how to upload marks from spreadsheet, then watch the
movie:

<iframe src="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1D73aKWyGB7jtCtttpIUvSmvKyBedZ9oe/preview"></iframe>

### [Grade Categories](GradeCategories.html)

### [Attendance](Attendance.html)

### Assignments

Follow similar approach as for attendance.

### Mid Semester Examinations

Follow similar approach as for attendance.

### Help

For any type of help, ask question at HelpLine of LCMS course on
guru.gndec.ac.in
